And while I can honestly...
...say I have told you...
...the truth...
...I may not have told you all of it.
I am old now, Frodo.
I'm not the same Hobbit I once was.
I think...
...it is time for you to know...
...what really happened.
It began...
...long 890--
...in a land far away to the east...
...the like of which you will not find
in the world today.
There was the city of Dale.
Its markets known...
...far and wide.
Full of the bounties of vine and vale.
Peaceful and prosperous.
For this city lay before the doors...
...of the greatest kingdom in Middle-earth:
Erebor.
Stronghold of Thror...
...King Under the Mountain. Mightiest...
...of the Dwarf Lords.
Thror ruled with utter surety...
...never doubting his house would endure...
...for his line lay secure...
...in the lives of his son...
...and grandson.
Ah, Frodo. Erebor.
Built deep within the mountain itself...
...the beauty of this fortress city was legend.
Its wealth lay in the earth...
...in precious gems hewn...
...from rock and in great seams of gold...
...running like rivers through stone.
The skill of the Dwarves...
...was unequaled, fashioning objects...
...of great beauty...
...out of diamond, emerald,
ruby and sapphire.
Ever they delved deeper...
...down into the dark.
And that is where they found it.
The Heart of the Mountain.
The Arkenstone.
Thror named it "The King's Jewel."
He took it as a sign,
a sign that his right to rule...